add tutuorial for cross-encoder model on sagemaker (#2607)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/rerank/rerank_pipeline_with_CrossEncoder_model_deployed_on_Sagemaker.md

    }
  ]
}
```

Use the connector ID from the response to create a model:
```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Sagemaker Cross-Encoder model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "test rerank model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```
Note the model ID in the response; you will use it in the following steps.

> Test the model using the Predict API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test the model by using the Predict API:
```

```json
POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters":  {
    "inputs": ["I kike you . I hate you", "I kike you . I love you"]
  }
}
```

Each item in the inputs array comprises the 'query text' and a 'text doc', separated by a ` . `

> The API can also be tested similarly to a [local cross-encoder model](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/pretrained-models/#cross-encoder-models).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can test the model as follows:
```

> The connector `pre_process_function` transforms the input into the format required by `inputs` parameter shown above. 

Reviewer: I would move this sentence to after the request and add the doc reference here.
```suggestion
The connector `pre_process_function` transforms the input into the format required by the `inputs` parameter shown previously.
```

```json
POST _plugins/_ml/_predict/text_similarity/your_model_id
{
  "query_text": "I kike you",
  "text_docs": ["I hate you", "I love you"]
}
```

> By default, the Sagemaker model output is in the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the SageMaker model output has the following format:
```

```json
[
  {
    "label": "LABEL_0",
    "score": 0.00964462198317051
  },
  {
    "label": "LABEL_0",
    "score": 0.01644575409591198
  }
]
```
The connector `pre_process_function` transforms the model's output into a format that the [Reranker processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rerank-processor/) can interpret. This adapted format is as follows:
```json
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            0.002032809890806675
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "similarity",
          "data_type": "FLOAT32",
          "shape": [
            1
          ],
          "data": [
            0.0026099851820617914
          ]
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

Explanation of the response:

> 1. The response contains 2 `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score between each document and the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The response contains two `similarity` outputs. For each `similarity` output, the `data` array contains a relevance score of each document against the query.
```

2. The `similarity` outputs are provided in the order of the input documents; the first result of similarity pertains to the first document.

## 2. Reranking pipeline
### 2.1 Ingest test data
```json
POST _bulk
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district." }
{ "index": { "_index": "my-test-data" } }
{ "passage_text" : "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states." }

```

> ### 2.2 Create reranking pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2.2 Create a reranking pipeline
```

```json
PUT /_search/pipeline/rerank_pipeline_sagemaker
{
    "description": "Pipeline for reranking with Sagemaker cross-encoder model",
    "response_processors": [
        {
            "rerank": {
                "ml_opensearch": {
                    "model_id": "your_model_id_created_in_step1"
                },
                "context": {
                    "document_fields": ["passage_text"]
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
```

> Note: if you provide multiple filed names in `document_fields`, it will concat the value of all fields then do rerank.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: if you provide multiple filed names in `document_fields`, the values of all fields are first concatenated and then reranking is performed.
```

### 2.2 Test reranking

> You can tune `size` if you want to return less result. For example, set `"size": 2` if you want to return top 2 documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To return a different number of results, provide the `size` parameter. For example, set `size` to `4` to return the top four documents:
```

        "_source": {
          "passage_text": "Washington, D.C. (also known as simply Washington or D.C., and officially as the District of Columbia) is the capital of the United States. It is a federal district."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "my-test-data",
        "_id": "toLLdZABHToP7ahNFqmx",
        "_score": 0.69457644,
        "_source": {
          "passage_text": "Capital punishment (the death penalty) has existed in the United States since beforethe United States was a country. As of 2017, capital punishment is legal in 30 of the 50 states."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "my-test-data",
        "_id": "s4LLdZABHToP7ahNFqmx",
        "_score": 0.41946858,
        "_source": {
          "passage_text": "Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada."
        }
      },
      {
        "_index": "my-test-data",
        "_id": "tILLdZABHToP7ahNFqmx",
        "_score": 0.2727688,
        "_source": {
          "passage_text": "The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands is a group of islands in the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is Saipan."
        }
      }
    ]
  },
  "profile": {
    "shards": []
  }
}
```

> Test without reranking pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test the query without a reranking pipeline:
```

```
GET my-test-data/_search
{
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  },
  "ext": {
    "rerank": {
      "query_context": {
         "query_text": "What is the capital of the United States?"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> The first document in the response is `Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada`, which is incorrect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first document in the response is `Carson City is the capital city of the American state of Nevada`, which is incorrect:
```

# Topic

[Reranking pipeline](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-relevance/reranking-search-results/) is a feature released in OpenSearch 2.12.
It can rerank search results, providing a relevance score for each document in the search results with respect to the search query.
The relevance score is calculated by a cross-encoder model. 

This tutorial explains how to use the [Huggingface cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2](https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2) model in a reranking pipeline. 

Note: Replace the placeholders that start with `your_` with your own values.

# Steps

## 0. Deploy Model on Sagemaker
Use this code to deploy model on Sagemaker.
```python
import sagemaker
import boto3
from sagemaker.huggingface import HuggingFaceModel
sess = sagemaker.Session()
role = sagemaker.get_execution_role()

hub = {
    'HF_MODEL_ID':'cross-encoder/ms-marco-MiniLM-L-6-v2',
    'HF_TASK':'text-classification'
}
huggingface_model = HuggingFaceModel(
    transformers_version='4.37.0',
    pytorch_version='2.1.0',
    py_version='py310',
    env=hub,
    role=role, 
)

> predictor = huggingface_model.deploy(

Reviewer 2: Can we also add instruction for GPU usage? Since we have batch ingestion now, ingestion throughput can benefit a lot from using GPU. 
Customer can choose GPU container from https://github.com/aws/deep-learning-containers/blob/master/available_images.md#huggingface-training-containers by using proper transformer + pytorch + py version and set a GPU instance like g4dn/g5.xlarge. Then the endpoint will use GPU for inference automatically.

Author: Let's keep this tutorial focusing on current topic. We can create a separate tutorial for GPU usage.

Reviewer 2: Sorry for late reply. I miss this message. We also want to create some docs for tutorial of neural sparse model. Maybe we will raise them together later.
